Nimatic - a static site generator
=================================

Nimatic is a flexible static site generator written in Nim.


## Layout overview

A Nimatic site has something like the following directory structure:

	assets/
		image.jpg
		style.css
	metapages/
		meta.py
	postprocessors/
		processor.py
	pages/
		index/
			meta.json
			page.md
		example-page/
			meta.json
			page.md
	templates/
		base.html
		page.html
		example.html
		
Nimatic then generates something like the following in a directory called `build`:

	assets/
		image.jpg
		style.css
	index.html
	example-page.html


## Writing a site

At the very least, you'll need to define a couple files:

* `templates/base.html` - this is the base template that Nimatic will cause all other templates to inherit from.
* One other non-base template for your pages/posts to use.
* An index page. Technically not necessary as far as Nimatic is concerned, but your site hould probably have one.


Pages with Nimatic are directories underneath the `pages` directory, each containing two files: `meta.json`, which
defines some metadata about the page-to-be, and `page.md`, which is the Markdown content of the page-to-be.


### Nimatic templating

Nimatic templates are plain text with a couple special strings that get replaced:

* `$title` - this is the title of the current page.
* `$content` - in a non-base template, this is the body of the page after it has been converted to HTML. In the base
  template, this is the content of the non-base template.


### meta.json

`meta.json` serves as a list of keys and their values that will get replaced inside the page body. For instance, given
a `meta.json` containing `"hello": "World!"` and a `page.md` that contained `$hello`, `$hello` would end up in the rendered
page as `World!`. There are a few required keys, however:

* `template` - this is the non-base template that the page should be rendered with.

There are some other keys with special meaning to Nimatic itself, namely:

* `title` - this ends up as the title of the page passed along to the template. If not given, the name of the directory
  containing `page.md` will be used instead.
* `output-name` - this is the filename of the page sans the `.html` extension. If not given, the name of the directory
  containing `page.md` will be used instead.

### page.md

This is a file containing Markdown that will become the page's body.


## Metapages

Your site can have an optional `metapages/` directory, holding metapages. A metapage is simply an executable file that Nimatic passes the metadata
of every non-meta page it can find via `stdin`. The metapage should then output on its `stdout` JSON with the same format as
the regular `meta.json` with an extra `body` key containing the Markdown body of the generated page. In other words, you can
write programs in whatever language you like that generate pages for your static site, possibly based off of your site's metadata.
For instance, you could write a program that generates a listing of all the tags used in your blog, and which blog entries use which tags.


## Postprocessors

Your site can have an optional `postprocessors/` directory, containing postprocessors. A postprocessor is similar to a metapage,
in that it is an executable file - though for every compiled page (even ones generated by a metapage), Nimatic will pass it the contents of that page
over `stdin`, and will overwrite the page's contents on disk with the output from the program's `stdout`. You can use this feature to further tweak and
enhance the HTML of your pages to your liking after Nimatic has generated them.


## Deploying/serving a site

Nimatic, by design, does not handle this step. I personally use and recommend [rclone](https://rclone) for deployment,
and for local viewing/testing, I use Python 3's `http.server` module, via `python3 -m http.server` inside the `build/` directory
of my Nimatic site.
